                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

         Consortium Agreement

                                    [U_CAN]

                                                   Version [3] - [12/04/2024]
(Based on DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, version 1.1, November 2022)

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

Table of Contents

1 Definitions ...................................................................................................................................... 6
2 Purpose .......................................................................................................................................... 7
3 Entry into force, duration and termination ................................................................................. 7
4 Responsibilities of Parties............................................................................................................ 8
5 Liability towards each other ......................................................................................................... 9
6 Governance structure ................................................................................................................. 11
7 Financial provisions .................................................................................................................... 16
8 Results.......................................................................................................................................... 19
9 Access Rights .............................................................................................................................. 22
10 Non-disclosure of information ................................................................................................... 25
11 Miscellaneous .............................................................................................................................. 26
12 Signatures .................................................................................................................................... 28
Attachment 1: Background included................................................................................................. 50
Attachment 2: Accession document ................................................................................................. 55
Attachment 3: List of third parties for simplified transfer according to Section 8.3.2................. 56
Attachment 4: Identified Entities Under the Same Control according to Section 9.5 .................. 57

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

Change Records  Date        Changes
 Version        18/01/2024  Modified DESCA template.
 Version 1      20/03/2024  Partner feedback incorporated
 Version 2      12/04/2024  formatting
 Version 3

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

CONSORTIUM AGREEMENT

THIS CONSORTIUM AGREEMENT is based upon Regulation (EU) No 2021/695 of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 28 April 2021 establishing Horizon Europe - the Framework Programme
for Research and Innovation (2021-2027), laying down its rules for participation and dissemination
(hereinafter referred to as "Horizon Europe Regulation"), and on the European Commission's General Model
Grant Agreement and its Annexes, and is made on May 1st, 2024, hereinafter referred to as the Effective
Date

BETWEEN:

1. TECHNISCHE UNIVERSITÄT DRESDEN (TUD), PIC 999897729, established in
    HELMHOLTZSTRASSE 10, DRESDEN 01069, Germany, the Coordinator,

2. LANDESHAUPTSTADT DRESDEN (LHD), PIC 965770413, established in DR KULZ RING 19,
    DRESDEN 01067, Germany,

3. VEREIN DER EUROPAEISCHEN BURGERWISSENSCHAFTEN - ECSA E.V. (ECSA), PIC
    937663402, established in INVALIDENSTR. 43, BERLIN 10115, Germany,

4. DIN DEUTSCHES INSTITUT FUER NORMUNG EV (DIN), PIC 999548917, established in
    BURGGRAFENSTRASSE 6, BERLIN 10787, Germany,

5. VYSKUMNE CENTRUM SLOVENSKEJ SPOLOCNOSTI PRE ZAHRANICNU POLITIKU NO
    (SFPA), PIC 941141628, established in STAROMESTSKA 6/D, BRATISLAVA 811 03, Slovakia,

6. ENVIROPLAN MELETITIKI -SYMVOULOI ANAPTYKSIAKON & TEXNIKON ERGON ANONYMI
    ETAIREIA (ENV), PIC 892884031, established in 23 PERIKLEOUS STREET & IRAS, PALLINI
    15344, Greece,

7. FUNDACJA PARTNERSTWA TECHNOLOGICZNEGO TECHNOLOGY PARTNERS (TPF), PIC
    998735863, established in UL. BITWY WARSZAWSKIEJ 1920R 7A, WARSZAWA 02-366, Poland,

8. POLITECHNIKA WROCLAWSKA (WUST), PIC 999845931, established in WYBRZEZE
    WYSPIANSKIEGO 27, WROCLAW 50-370, Poland,

9. AARHUS UNIVERSITET (AU), CVR-nr. 31 11 91 03, established in NORDRE RINGGADE 1,
    AARHUS C 8000, Denmark,

10.UNIVERSITA DEGLI STUDI DELL'AQUILA (ULA), PIC 999859511, established in PIAZZA SANTA
    MARGHERITA 2, L AQUILA 67100, Italy,

11. JOANNEUM RESEARCH FORSCHUNGSGESELLSCHAFT MBH (JRG), PIC 999981537,
    established in LEONHARDSTRASSE 59, GRAZ 8010, Austria,

12.NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATION BUREAU OF RESEARCH, INNOVATIONS AND
    TECHNOLOGIES (BRIT), PIC 915924344, established in MYKYTYNETSKA 5A OFFICE 213,
    IVANO-FRANKIVSK 76002, Ukraine,

13.O.M. BEKETOV NATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF URBAN ECONOMY IN KHARKIV (OMB), PIC
    937384818, established in MARSHALA BAZHANOVA ST. 17, KHARKIV 61002, Ukraine,

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

14. NATIONAL TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY OF UKRAINE IGOR SIKORSKY KYIV POLYTECHNIC
    INSTITUTE (ISKPI), PIC 998145715, established in 37 BERESTEISKYI AVENUE, KYIV 03056,
    Ukraine,

15. HROMADSKA ORHANIZATSIYA KLUB MERIV (MCU), PIC 881100374, established in
    KHARKIVSKE SHOSSE 175 OFFICE 16, KYIV 02121, Ukraine,

16. MUNICIPAL INSTITUTION CITY INSTITUTE (CIL), PIC 928510870, established in RYNOK
    SQUARE 1, LVIV 79008, Ukraine,

17. MUNICIPAL INSTITUTION "CITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY" OF ZHYTOMYR CITY COUNCIL
    (ZCC), PIC 906367322, established in maidan named after S.P. Korolova 4/2 Zhytomyr 10014,
    Ukraine,

18.KHMELNITSKY NATIONAL UNIVERSITY (KhNU), PIC 964860456, established in INSTYTUTSKA
    STREET 11, KHMELNYTSKY 29016, Ukraine,

19.LEONID YUZKOV KHMELNITSKYI UNIVERSITY OF MANAGEMENT AND LAW (LYKUML), PIC
    934190705, established in ST HEROIV MAIDAN ST 8, KHMELNYTSKYI 29 000, Ukraine,

20. MUNICIPAL ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE OF URBAN DEVELOPMENT (ME IUD), PIC 882229066,
    established in SOBORNA STREET 59, VINNYTSIA 21050, Ukraine,

21. PUBLIC ORGANIZATION REGIONAL CENTER OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (RCSD),
    PIC 880865828, established in 82b Oleksiy Shovkunenko str. ap 1, Kherson 73000, Ukraine,

hereinafter, jointly or individually, referred to as "Parties" or "Party"

relating to the Action entitled

Ukraine towards Carbon Neutrality

in short

U_CAN

hereinafter referred to as "Project"

WHEREAS:

The Parties, having considerable experience in the field concerned, have submitted a proposal for the
Project to the Granting Authority as part of Horizon Europe - the Framework Programme for Research
and Innovation (2021-2027).

The Parties wish to specify or supplement binding commitments among themselves in addition to the
provisions of the specific Grant Agreement to be signed by the Parties and the Granting Authority
(hereinafter "Grant Agreement").

The Parties wish to specify or supplement binding commitments among themselves in addition to the
provisions of the specific Grant Agreement to be signed by the Parties and the Granting Authority
(hereinafter "Grant Agreement").

The Parties are aware that this Consortium Agreement is based upon the DESCA model consortium
agreement.

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:

1 Definitions

       Definitions

Words beginning with a capital letter shall have the meaning defined either herein or in the Horizon
Europe Regulation or in the Grant Agreement including its Annexes.

       Additional Definitions

"Consortium Body"

Consortium Body means any management body described in Section 6 (Governance Structure) of this
Consortium Agreement.

"Consortium Plan"

Consortium Plan means the description of the Action and the related agreed budget as first defined in the
Grant Agreement and which may be updated by the General Assembly.

"Granting Authority"

Granting Authority means the body awarding the grant for the Project.

"Defaulting Party"

Defaulting Party means a Party which the General Assembly has declared to be in breach of this
Consortium Agreement and/or the Grant Agreement as specified in Section 4.2 of this Consortium
Agreement.

"Entity Under the Same Control"

Entity Under the Same Control means any legal entity that is under the direct or indirect control of a
Party, or under the same direct or indirect control as the Party, or that is directly or indirectly controlling
a Party.

"Control" may take any of the following forms:

(a) the direct or indirect holding of more than 50% of the nominal value of the issued share capital in the
legal entity concerned, or of a majority of the voting rights of the shareholders or associates of that entity;

(b) the direct or indirect holding, in fact or in law, of decision-making powers in the legal entity concerned.

However, the following relationships between legal entities shall not in themselves constitute controlling
relationships:

(a) the same public investment corporation, institutional investor or venture-capital company has a direct
or indirect holding of more than 50% of the nominal value of the issued share capital or a majority of
voting rights of the shareholders or associates;

(b) the legal entities concerned are owned or supervised by the same public body.

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

"Fair and Reasonable conditions"

means appropriate conditions, including possible financial terms or royalty-free conditions, taking into
account the specific circumstances of the request for access, for example the actual or potential value
of the Results or Background to which access is requested and/or the scope, duration or other
characteristics of the Exploitation envisaged.

"Needed"

means:

For the implementation of the Project:

Access Rights are Needed if, without the grant of such Access Rights, carrying out the tasks assigned to
the recipient Party would be technically or legally impossible, significantly delayed, or require significant
additional financial or human resources.

For Exploitation of own Results:

Access Rights are Needed if, without the grant of such Access Rights, the Exploitation of own Results
would be technically or legally impossible.

"Software"

Software means sequences of instructions to carry out a process in, or convertible into, a form
executable by a computer and fixed in any tangible medium of expression.

2 Purpose

The purpose of this Consortium Agreement is to delineate the relationship between the Parties involved
in the Project. In particular, the Consortium Agreement outlines the organisation of the work and its
distribution among the Parties, project management protocols and the respective rights and obligations
of the Parties. This includes but not limited to matters of liability, Access Rights and dispute resolution.

3 Entry into force, duration and termination

       Entry into force

An entity becomes a Party to this Consortium Agreement upon signature of this Consortium Agreement
by a duly authorised representative.

This Consortium Agreement shall have effect from the Effective Date identified at the beginning of this
Consortium Agreement.

An entity becomes a new Party to the Consortium Agreement upon signature of the accession document
(Attachment 2) by the new Party and the Coordinator in accordance with the decision of the General
Assembly. Such accession shall have effect from the date identified in the accession document.

       Duration and termination

This Consortium Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until complete fulfilment of all
obligations undertaken by the Parties under the Grant Agreement and under this Consortium
Agreement.

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

However, this Consortium Agreement or the participation of one or more Parties to it may be terminated
in accordance with the terms of this Consortium Agreement.

If

      the Grant Agreement is not signed by the Granting Authority or a Party, or
      the Grant Agreement is terminated, or
      a Party 's participation in the Grant Agreement is terminated,

this Consortium Agreement shall automatically terminate in respect of the affected Party/ies, subject to
the provisions surviving the expiration or termination under Section 3.3 of this Consortium Agreement.

       Survival of rights and obligations

The provisions relating to Access Rights, Dissemination and confidentiality, for the time period specified
therein, along with the provisions regarding liability, applicable law and settlement of disputes, and any
other provision that owing to its purpose must apply beyond the duration of the Consortium Agreement,
shall persist following the expiration or termination of this Consortium Agreement.

Termination of this Consortium Agreement shall not affect any rights or obligations of a Party
withdrawing from the Project prior to the date of termination, unless otherwise agreed between the
General Assembly and the withdrawing Party. This includes the obligation to provide all necessary input,
deliverables and documents for the period of its participation.

4 Responsibilities of Parties

       General principles

Each Party undertakes to take part in the efficient implementation of the Project, and to cooperate,
perform and fulfil, promptly and on time, all of its obligations under the Grant Agreement and this
Consortium Agreement as may be reasonably required from it and in a manner of good faith as
prescribed by Belgian law.

Each Party undertakes to notify promptly the other Parties, in accordance with the governance structure
of the Project, of any significant information, fact, problem or delay likely to affect the Project and, if the
situation requires (e.g., there is an issue with the Coordinator), directly notify the Granting Authority.

Each Party shall promptly provide all information reasonably required by a Consortium Body or by the
Coordinator to carry out its tasks and shall responsibly manage the access of its employees to the EU
Funding & Tenders Portal.

Each Party shall take reasonable measures to ensure the accuracy of any information or materials it
supplies to the other Parties.

       Breach

In the event that the General Assembly identifies a breach by a Party of its obligations under this
Consortium Agreement or the Grant Agreement (e.g. improper implementation of the Project), the
Coordinator or, if the Coordinator is in breach of its obligations, the Party appointed by the General
Assembly, shall issue formal notice to the defaulting Party. Said notice shall stipulate that the identified
breach must be remedied within 30 calendar days from the date of receipt of the written notice by the
defaulting Party.

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

If such breach is substantial and is not remedied within that period or is not capable of remedy, the
General Assembly may decide to declare the Party to be a Defaulting Party and to decide on the
consequences thereof which may include termination of its participation.

A breach shall be deemed 'substantial' if it materially impedes the progress of the Project, poses a
significant risk to its successful completion, or violates fundamental provisions of this Consortium
Agreement or the Grant Agreement, as determined by the General Assembly in its sole discretion

       Involvement of third parties

A Party that enters into a subcontract or otherwise involves third parties (including but not limited to
Affiliated Entities or other Participants) in the Project remains responsible for carrying out its relevant
part of the Project and for such third party's compliance with the provisions of this Consortium
Agreement and of the Grant Agreement. Such Party has to ensure that the involvement of third parties
does not affect the rights and obligations of the other Parties under this Consortium Agreement and the
Grant Agreement.

       Specific responsibilities regarding data protection

Where necessary, the Parties shall cooperate in order to enable one another to fulfil legal obligations
arising under applicable data protection laws (the Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament
and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal data and on the free movement of such data - GDPR - and relevant national data protection
law applicable to said Party) within the scope of the performance and administration of the Project and
of this Consortium Agreement.

Each Party is solely responsible for complying with the provisions on the protection of personal data
provided for in the GDPR and any applicable national data protection of that Party. Each Party must
comply with the obligations arising therefrom, adopting the appropriate technical and organisational
measures to ensure an appropriate level of security.

Personal data of employees, collaborators and in any case of any subject operating in the name and on
behalf of each Party (name, company e-mail address, etc.), shall be processed by the other Party solely
for purposes strictly related and functional to the establishment and execution of the contractual
relationship governed by this Consortium Agreement, as well as to fulfil any legal or regulatory
obligations.

The Parties agree to involve personnel in data processing that are trained and instructed to ensure the
adequate security and confidentiality of the personal data processed.

In particular, the Parties shall, where necessary, conclude a separate data processing, data sharing
and/or joint controller agreement before any data processing or data sharing takes place.

5 Liability towards each other

       No warranties

In respect of any information or materials (incl. Results and Background) supplied by one Party to another
under the Project, no warranty or representation of any kind is made, given or implied as to the

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

sufficiency or fitness for purpose nor as to the absence of any infringement of any proprietary rights of
third parties.

Therefore,

      the recipient Party shall in all cases be entirely and solely liable for the use to which it puts such
          information and materials, and

      no Party granting Access Rights shall be liable in case of infringement of proprietary rights of a
          third party resulting from any other Party (or its Entities Under the Same Control) exercising its
          Access Rights.

       Limitations of contractual liability

No Party shall be held liable to any other Party for any indirect or consequential loss or similar damages
such as, but not limited to, loss of profit, loss of revenue or loss of contracts, except in case of breach
of confidentiality.

A Party's aggregate liability towards the other Parties collectively shall be limited to the fewer of (i) once
the Party's share of the total costs of the Project as identified in Annex 2 of the Grant Agreement or (ii)
360,000 EUR.

A Party's liability shall not be limited under either of the two preceding paragraphs to the extent that
such damage was caused by a wilful act or gross negligence or to the extent that such limitation is not
permitted by mandatory law.

       Damage caused to third parties

Each Party shall be solely liable for any loss, damage or injury to third parties resulting from the
performance of the said Party's obligations by it or on its behalf under this Consortium Agreement or
through the utilization of Results or Background.

       Force Majeure

No Party shall be considered to be in breach of this Consortium Agreement if it is prevented from fulfilling
its obligations under the Consortium Agreement by Force Majeure.

Each Party shall notify the General Assembly of any Force Majeure without undue delay. If the
consequences of Force Majeure for the Project are not overcome within 6 weeks after such notice, the
transfer of tasks - if any - shall be decided by the General Assembly.

        Export control

No Party shall be considered to be in breach of this Consortium Agreement if it is prevented from fulfilling
its obligations under the Consortium Agreement due to a restriction resulting from import or export laws
and regulations and/or any delay of the granting or extension of the import or export license or any other
governmental authorisation, provided that the Party has used its reasonable efforts to fulfil its tasks and
to apply for any necessary license or authorisation properly and in time.

Each Party will notify the General Assembly of any such restriction without undue delay. If the
consequences of such restriction for the Project are not overcome within 6 weeks after such notice, the
transfer of tasks - if any - shall be decided by the General Assembly.]

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

6 Governance structure

       General structure

The organisational structure of the consortium shall comprise the following Consortium Bodies:

The General Assembly as the ultimate body of the consortium.

The Coordinator is the legal entity acting as the intermediary between the Parties and the Granting
Authority. The Coordinator shall, in addition to its responsibilities as a Party, perform the tasks assigned
to it as described in the Grant Agreement and this Consortium Agreement.

The Network Partners Board will engage in U_CAN activities, such as twinning between European
Mission Cities and Ukrainian cities, and actively promote the project, its activities and results to ensure
the Project will make an impact on the long run.

       Members

The General Assembly shall consist of one representative of each Party (hereinafter referred to as
"Member").

Each Member shall be deemed to be duly authorised to deliberate, negotiate and decide on all matters
listed in Section 6.3.7 of this Consortium Agreement.

The Coordinator shall chair all meetings of the General Assembly, unless decided otherwise by the
General Assembly.

The Parties agree to abide by all decisions of the General Assembly.

This does not prevent the Parties from exercising their veto rights, according to Section 6.3.5, or from
submitting a dispute for resolution in accordance with the provisions of settlement of disputes in Section
11.8 of this Consortium Agreement.

       Operational procedures for the General Assembly:

6.3.1 Representation in meetings

Any Member:

      should be present or represented at any meeting;
      may appoint a substitute or a proxy to attend and vote at any meeting;
      shall participate in a cooperative manner in the meetings.
6.3.2 Preparation and organisation of meetings

6.3.2.1 Convening meetings:

The chairperson shall convene ordinary meetings of the General Assembly at least once every six
months and shall also convene extraordinary meetings at any time upon written request of any Member.

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

6.3.2.2 Notice of a meeting
The chairperson shall give written notice of a meeting to each Member as soon as possible and no later
than 14 calendar days preceding an ordinary meeting and 7 calendar days preceding an extraordinary
meeting.
6.3.2.3 Sending the agenda:
The chairperson shall prepare and send each Member an agenda no later than 14 calendar days
preceding the meeting, or 7 calendar days before an extraordinary meeting.
6.3.2.4 Adding agenda items:
Any agenda item requiring a decision by the Members must be identified as such on the agenda.
Any Member may add an item or more to the original agenda by written notice to all of the other Members
no later than 7 calendar days preceding the meeting and 2 days preceding an extraordinary meeting.
6.3.2.5
During a meeting of the General Assembly the Members present or represented can unanimously agree
to add a new item to the original agenda.
6.3.2.6
Meetings of the General Assembly may also be held by tele- or videoconference or other
telecommunication means.
6.3.2.7
Decisions will only be binding once the relevant part of the minutes has been accepted according to
Section 6.3.6.2.
6.3.3 Decisions without a meeting
Any decision may also be taken without a meeting if

     a) the Coordinator circulates to all Members of the General Assembly a suggested decision with a
          deadline for responses of at least 10 calendar days after receipt by a Party and

     b) the decision is agreed by 2/3 of the votes cast.
The Coordinator shall inform all the Members of the outcome of the vote.
A veto according to Section 6.3.5 may be submitted up to 15 calendar days after sending of this
information.
The decision will be binding after the Coordinator sends a notification to all Members. The Coordinator
shall keep records of the votes and make them available to the Parties on request.

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

6.3.4 Voting rules and quorum

6.3.4.1

The General Assembly shall not deliberate and decide validly in meetings unless two-thirds (2/3) of its
Members are present or represented (quorum).

If the quorum is not reached, the chairperson of the General Assembly shall convene another ordinary
meeting within 15 calendar days. If in this meeting the quorum is not reached once more, the chairperson
shall convene an extraordinary meeting which shall be entitled to decide even if less than the quorum
of Members is present or represented.

6.3.4.2

Each Member present or represented in the meeting shall have one vote. Associated Partners are
excluded from certain decisions of the General Assembly according to Section 6.2.

6.3.4.3

A Party which the General Assembly has declared according to Section 4.2 to be a Defaulting Party
may not vote.

6.3.4.4

Decisions shall be taken by a majority of two-thirds (2/3) of the votes cast.

6.3.5 Veto rights

6.3.5.1

A Party which can show that its own work, time for performance, costs, liabilities, intellectual property
rights or other legitimate interests would be severely affected by a decision of the General Assembly
may exercise a veto with respect to the corresponding decision or relevant part of the decision.

6.3.5.2

When the decision is foreseen on the original agenda, a Party may only veto such a decision during the
meeting.

6.3.5.3

When a decision has been taken on a new item added to the agenda before or during the meeting, a
Party may veto such decision during the meeting or within 15 calendar days after receipt of the draft
minutes of the meeting.

6.3.5.4

When a decision has been taken without a meeting a Party may veto such decision within 15 calendar
days upon receipt of the written notice by the chairperson of the outcome of the vote.

6.3.5.5

In case of exercise of veto, the Parties shall make every effort to resolve the matter which occasioned
the veto to the general satisfaction of all Parties.

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

6.3.5.6

A Party shall not have the authority to veto decisions relating to its identification to be in breach of its
obligations nor to its identification as a Defaulting Party. The Defaulting Party may not veto decisions
relating to its participation and termination in the consortium or the consequences of them.

6.3.5.7

A Party requesting to leave the consortium may not veto decisions relating thereto.

6.3.6 Minutes of meetings

6.3.6.1

The chairperson shall produce minutes of every meeting which shall be the formal record of all decisions
taken. He/she shall send the draft minutes to all Members within 10 calendar days of the meeting.

6.3.6.2

The minutes shall be considered as accepted if, within 15 calendar days from receipt, no Party has sent
an objection to the chairperson with respect to the accuracy of the draft of the minutes, by written notice.

6.3.6.3

The chairperson shall send the accepted minutes to all the Members, and to the Coordinator, who shall
retain copies of them until three years after the successful completion of the Project or the termination
of this Consortium Agreement.

6.3.7 Decisions of the General Assembly

The General Assembly, shall be free to act on its own initiative to formulate proposals and take decisions
in accordance with the procedures set out herein.

The following decisions shall be taken by the General Assembly:

Content, finances and intellectual property rights

      Proposals for changes to Annexes 1 and 2 of the Grant Agreement to be agreed by the Granting
          Authority

      Changes to the Consortium Plan
      Modifications or withdrawal of Background in Attachment 1 (Background Included)
      Additions to Attachment 3 (List of Third Parties for simplified transfer according to Section 8.3.2)
      Additions to Attachment 4 (Identified Entities Under the Same Control)

Evolution of the consortium

      Entry of a new Party to the Project and approval of the settlement on the conditions of the
          accession of such a new Party

      Withdrawal of a Party from the Project and the approval of the settlement on the conditions of
          the withdrawal

      Proposal to the Granting Authority for a change of the Coordinator
      Proposal to the Granting Authority for suspension of all or part of the Project
      Proposal to the Granting Authority for termination of the Project and the Consortium Agreement

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

Breach, defaulting party status and litigation

      Identification of a breach by a Party of its obligations under this Consortium Agreement or the
          Grant Agreement

      Declaration of a Party to be a Defaulting Party
      Remedies to be performed by a Defaulting Party
      Termination of a Defaulting Party's participation in the consortium and measures relating thereto

Appointments

On the basis of the Grant Agreement, the appointment, if necessary, of:

      External Experts

In the case of abolished tasks as a result of a decision of the General Assembly, Members shall
rearrange the tasks of the Parties concerned. Such rearrangement shall take into consideration any
prior legitimate commitments which cannot be cancelled.

       Coordinator

6.4.1

The Coordinator shall be the intermediary between the Parties and the Granting Authority and shall
perform all tasks assigned to it as described in the Grant Agreement and in this Consortium Agreement.

6.4.2

In particular, the Coordinator shall be responsible for:

      monitoring compliance by the Parties with their obligations under this Consortium Agreement
          and the Grant Agreement

      keeping the address list of Members and other contact persons updated and available
      collecting, reviewing to verify consistency and submitting reports, other deliverables (including

          financial statements and related certification) and specific requested documents to the Granting
          Authority
      preparing the meetings, proposing decisions and preparing the agenda of General Assembly
          meetings, chairing the meetings, preparing the minutes of the meetings and monitoring the
          implementation of decisions taken at meetings
      transmitting promptly documents and information connected with the Project to any other Party
          concerned
      administering the financial contribution of the Granting Authority and fulfilling the financial tasks
          described in Section 7.2
      is authorized to sign the Accession document with a new Party in execution of a respective
          decision of the General Assembly
      providing a copy of the Grant Agreement and its Annexes to the Associated Partners
      providing, upon request, the Parties with official copies of documents that are in the sole
          possession of the Coordinator when such copies are necessary for the Parties to present claims.

If one or more of the Parties is late in submission of any Project deliverable, the Coordinator may
nevertheless submit the other Parties' Project deliverables and all other documents required by the
Grant Agreement to the Granting Authority in time.

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

6.4.3

If the Coordinator fails in its coordination tasks, the General Assembly may propose to the Granting
Authority to change the Coordinator.

6.4.4

The Coordinator shall not be entitled to act or to make legally binding declarations on behalf of any other
Party or of the consortium, unless explicitly stated otherwise in the Grant Agreement or this Consortium
Agreement.

6.4.5

The Coordinator shall not expand its role beyond the tasks specified in this Consortium Agreement and
in the Grant Agreement.

       Network Partners Board (NPB)

Network Partners Board (NPB) will be appointed and steered by the General Assembly. The NPB shall
assist and facilitate the decisions made by the General Assembly.

The Parties do not expect to disclose Confidential Information to the NPB member. Upon decision by
the General Assembly the Coordinator will manage the execution of a non-disclosure agreement
between all Parties and each NPB member.

The NPB members shall be allowed to participate in General Assembly meetings upon invitation but
have not any voting rights.

7 Financial provisions

       General Principles

7.1.1 Distribution of Financial Contribution

The financial contribution of the Granting Authority to the Project shall be distributed by the Coordinator
according to:

      the Consortium Plan
      the approval of reports by the Granting Authority, and
      the provisions of payment in Section 7.2.

A Party shall be funded only for its tasks carried out in accordance with the Consortium Plan.

7.1.2 Justifying Costs

In accordance with its own usual accounting and management principles and practices, each Party shall
be solely responsible for justifying its costs (and those of its Affiliated Entities, if any) with respect to the
Project towards the Granting Authority. Neither the Coordinator nor any of the other Parties shall be in
any way liable or responsible for such justification of costs towards the Granting Authority.

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

7.1.3 Funding Principles

A Party that spends less than its allocated share of the budget as set out in the Consortium Plan or - in
case of reimbursement via unit costs - implements less units than foreseen in the Consortium Plan will
be funded in accordance with its units/actual duly justified eligible costs only.

A Party that spends more than its allocated share of the budget as set out in the Consortium Plan will
be funded only in respect of duly justified eligible costs up to an amount not exceeding that share. Subject
to a different General Assembly's decision, the Parties having overspend its allocated share may receive
an additional share of the grant, if (i) at the end of the Project the total eligible costs claimed allow a
reallocation of unspent Granting Authority's contribution among the Parties and (ii) such overspend is
accepted by the Granting Authority as a fully eligible cost; This amount will be distributed proportionally
to the percentage of the Party's exceeding share on the total overspent EC contribution.

7.1.4 Excess payments

A Party has received excess payment

     a) if the payment received from the Coordinator exceeds the amount declared or

     b) if a Party has received payments but, within the last year of the Project, its real Project costs fall
          significantly behind the costs it would be entitled to according to the Consortium Plan.

In case a Party has received excess payment, the Party has to inform the Coordinator and return the
relevant amount to the Coordinator without undue delay. In case no refund takes place within 30 days
upon request for return of excess payment from the Coordinator, the Party is deemed to be in substantial
breach of the Consortium Agreement.

Amounts which are not refunded by a breaching Party and which are not due to the Granting Authority,
shall be apportioned by the Coordinator to the remaining Parties pro rata according to their share of total
costs of the Project as identified in the Consortium Budget, until recovery from the breaching Party is
possible.

7.1.5 Revenue

In case a Party earns any revenue that is deductible from the total funding as set out in the Consortium
Plan, the deduction is only directed toward the Party earning such revenue. The other Parties' financial
share of the budget shall not be affected by one Party's revenue. In case the relevant revenue is more
than the allocated share of the Party as set out in the Consortium Plan, the Party shall reimburse the
funding reduction suffered by other Parties.

7.1.6 Financial Consequences of the termination of the participation of a Party

A Party leaving the consortium shall refund to the Coordinator any payments it has received except the
amount of contribution accepted by the Granting Authority or another contributor.

In addition, a Party declared to be a Defaulting Party shall, within the limits specified in Section 5.2 of
this Consortium Agreement, bear any reasonable and justifiable additional costs occurring to the other
Parties in order to perform the leaving Party´s task and necessary additional efforts to fulfil them as a
consequence of the Party leaving the consortium. The General Assembly should agree on a procedure
regarding additional costs which are not covered by the Defaulting Party or the Mutual Insurance
Mechanism.

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

       Payments

7.2.1 Payments to Parties are the exclusive task of the Coordinator

In particular, the Coordinator shall:

      notify the Party concerned promptly of the date and composition of the amount transferred to its
          bank account, giving the relevant references

      perform diligently its tasks in the proper administration of any funds and in maintaining financial
          accounts

      undertake to keep the Granting Authority's financial contribution to the Project separated from
          its normal business accounts, its own assets and property, except if the Coordinator is a Public
          Body or is not entitled to do so due to statutory legislation.

With reference to Article 22 of the Grant Agreement, no Party shall receive more than its allocated share
of the maximum grant amount before the end of the Project. This allocation is calculated after
deductingthe amounts retained by the Granting Authority for the Mutual Insurance Mechanism and for
the final payment.

7.2.2

The transfer of the initial pre-financing, the additional pre-financings (if any) and interim payments to
Parties will be handled in accordance with Article 22.1. and Article 7 of the Grant Agreement following
this payment schedule:

Funding of costs included in the Consortium Plan will be paid by the Coordinator to the Parties after
receipt of payments from the Granting Authority by the Coordinator of the financial contribution for the
pre-financing and/or the accepted eligible costs of submitted periodic or final reports in separate
instalments as agreed below:

For the initial pre-financing:

     (a) 50% of the initial pre-financing will be transferred to the Parties upon receipt of the payment
          from the Granting Authority without undue delay, provided that the Parties have signed this
          Consortium Agreement and acceded to the Grant Agreement. In case this portion of the initial
          pre-financing is provenly not sufficient to cover a Party's costs for the first 12 (twelve) months
          of the Project, that Party may request an increase of its initial pre-financing share up to a
          maximum of 70% of its initial pre-financing share.

     (b) The remaining percentage of the initial pre-financing will be transferred without undue delay
          after submission of the first year (M12) periodic report, provided the Party:

         submits its contributions for the first year (M12) periodic report, including a financial statement
              covering the period of M1-M12, drawn up in accordance with the Consortium Plan,
              demonstrating the Party has used at least 70% of the previously received pre-financing.

For interim payments:

The interim payments shall be paid by the Coordinator to the Parties upon receipt from the Granting
Authority without undue delay and will be calculated on the basis of the eligible costs approved by the
Funding Authority. The amounts paid for interim payments will correspond to the accepted EU

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

contribution. However, the total amount of interim payments and pre-financing will be limited to 85% of
the maximum EU contribution per Party.

Final payment:

After receipt from the Granting Authority by the Coordinator of the financial contribution for the final
payment Beneficiaries will be reimbursed without undue delay for their balance due.

The Coordinator is entitled to withhold any payments due to a Party identified by the General Assembly
to be in breach of its obligations under this Consortium Agreement or the Grant Agreement.

The Coordinator is entitled to reclaim any payments already paid to a Defaulting Party except the costs
already claimed by the Defaulting Party and accepted by the Granting Authority. The Coordinator is
equally entitled to withhold payments to a Party when this is suggested by or agreed with the Granting
Authority.

8 Results

       Ownership of Results

Results are owned by the Party that generates them.

       Joint ownership

Joint ownership is governed by Grant Agreement Article 16.4 and its Annex 5, Section Ownership of
results, with the following additions:

Unless otherwise agreed:

  each of the joint owners shall be entitled to use their jointly owned Results for non-commercial
        research and teaching activities on a royalty-free basis, and without requiring the prior consent
        of the other joint owner(s). Non-commercial research and teaching activities means use for
        academic/teaching/scientific purposes, or mere internal use, and
         excludes use in contract research (= rendering a research service against payment to a
            customer, using the joint Result), even when the charge is mere cost reimbursement without
            profit;
         excludes use of results for royalty bearing activities (such as licensing) or other activities
            leading to monetary benefits (e.g. use in developing, creating or marketing a product or
            process or creating and providing a service or use in standardisation activities);
         includes use in further national or European funded projects. However, if such utilization
            extends to granting additional user rights to third parties (e.g. project partners) for purposes
            other than the implementation of the project, these additional user rights shall not fall under
            the category of non-commercial research activities as outlined in this provision.

  each of the joint owners shall be entitled to otherwise Exploit the jointly owned Results and to
        grant non-exclusive licenses to third parties, if the other joint owners are given: (a) at least 45
        calendar days advance notice; and (b) fair and reasonable compensation;

The joint owners shall collectively agree upon all protection measures and the allocation of associated
costs in advance.

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

       Transfer of Results

8.3.1

Each Party may transfer ownership of its own Results, including its share in jointly owned Results (if not
agreed differently between the joint owners in a joint ownership agreement), following the procedures
of the Grant Agreement Article 16.4 and its Annex 5, Section Transfer and licensing of results, sub-
section "Transfer of ownership" as complemented by this Section 8.3.

8.3.2

Each Party may identify specific third parties, to which it intends to transfer the ownership of its Results
\in Attachment (3) to this Consortium Agreement. The other Parties hereby waive their right to prior
notice and their right to object to a transfer to any such identified third party and to any of the Party's
Entities Under the Same Control according to the Grant Agreement Article 16.4 and its Annex 5, Section
Transfer of licensing of results, sub-section "Transfer of ownership", 3rd paragraph.

8.3.3

The transferring Party shall, however, at the time of the transfer, inform the other Parties of the transfer
and shall ensure that the rights of the other Parties under the Consortium Agreement and the Grant
Agreement will not be affected by such transfer. Any addition to Attachment (3) after signature of this
Consortium Agreement requires a decision of the General Assembly.

8.3.4

The Parties recognise that in the framework of a merger or an acquisition of its assets, it may be
impossible under applicable EU and national laws on mergers and acquisitions for a Party to give at
least 45 calendar days prior notice for the transfer as foreseen in the Grant Agreement.

8.3.5

The obligations above apply only for as long as other Parties still have - or still may request - Access
Rights to the Results.

       Dissemination

8.4.1

For the avoidance of doubt, the confidentiality obligations set out in Section 10 apply to all dissemination
activities described in this Section 8.4 as far as Confidential Information is involved.

8.4.2 Dissemination of own (including jointly owned) Results

8.4.2.1

During the Project and for a period of 1 year after the end of the Project, the dissemination of own
Results by one or several Parties including but not restricted to publications and presentations, shall be
governed by the procedure of Article 17.4 of the Grant Agreement and its Annex 5, Section
Dissemination, subject to the following provisions.

Prior notice of any planned publication shall be given to the other Parties at least 15 calendar days
before the publication. Any objection to the planned publication shall be made in accordance with the

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

Grant Agreement by written notice to the Coordinator and to the Party or Parties proposing the
dissemination within 15 calendar days after receipt of the notice. If no objection is made within the time
limit stated above, the publication is deemed permitted.

8.4.2.2

An objection is justified if the planned publication:

     a) would prevent patenting or registration of other intellectual property rights of the objecting
          Party's Results or Background or

     b) includes unpublished Background, unpublished solely owned Results or Confidential
          Information of the objecting Party

The objection has to include a precise request for necessary modifications.

8.4.2.3

If an objection has been raised the involved Parties shall discuss how to overcome the justified grounds
for the objection on a timely basis (for example by amendment to the planned publication and/or by
protecting information before publication) and whereby the scientific quality of the publication is
maintained. The objecting Party shall not unreasonably continue the opposition if appropriate measures
are taken following the discussion. The objecting Party is entitled to suggest specific amendments to
the planned publication, provided, however, that each authoring Party alone shall decide the final
wording and content of its own text.

8.4.2.4

The objecting Party can request a publication delay of not more than 60 calendar days from the time it
raises such an objection. After 60 calendar days the publication is permitted.

8.4.3 Dissemination of another Party's unpublished Results or Background

A Party shall not include in any dissemination activity another Party's Results or Background without
obtaining the owning Party's prior written approval, unless they are already available through publication.

8.4.4 Cooperation obligations

The Parties undertake to cooperate to allow the timely submission, examination, publication and defence
of any dissertation or thesis for a degree that includes their Results or Background subject to the
confidentiality and publication provisions agreed in this Consortium Agreement.

In accordance with scientific customs, a Party's contributions will be expressly reflected in all written or
oral public disclosures concerning Results by acknowledgment or co-authorship, as appropriate. An
appropriate reference to the support of the Granting Authority must be included in all such disclosures
and publications in accordance with the Grant Agreement.

8.4.5 Use of names, logos or trademarks

Nothing in this Consortium Agreement shall be construed as conferring rights to use in advertising,
publicity or otherwise the name of the Parties or any of their logos or trademarks without their prior
written approval.

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

       Standardization

The Parties decide on standardisation activities according to Annex 1 (Description of the action) of the
Grant Agreement, especially Task 5.1, or as otherwise stated in this Consortium Agreement. If
standardisation activities are initiated, the results can be published independently of and preferential to
the provisions of this Agreement as formal standards or similar according to the rules of standardisation
as applied by CEN, ISO or any of its members (the National Standardisation Bodies), especially DIN.

9 Access Rights

       Background included

9.1.1

In Attachment 1, the Parties have identified and agreed on the Background for the Project and have
also, where relevant, informed each other that Access Rights to specific Background are subject to legal
restrictions or limits.

Anything not identified in Attachment 1 shall not be the object of Access Right obligations regarding
Background.

9.1.2

Any Party may add additional Background to Attachment 1 during the Project provided they give written
notice to the other Parties. However, approval of the General Assembly is needed should a Party wish
to modify or withdraw its Background in Attachment 1.

       General Principles

9.2.1

Each Party shall implement its tasks in accordance with the Consortium Plan and shall assume sole
liabilityfor ensuring that its acts within the Project do not knowingly infringe the intellectual property rights
of third parties.

9.2.2

Any Access Rights granted exclude any rights to sublicense unless expressly stated otherwise.

9.2.3

Access Rights shall be free of any administrative transfer costs.

9.2.4

Access Rights are granted on a non-exclusive basis.

9.2.5

Results and Background shall be used only for the purposes for which Access Rights to it have been
granted.

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

9.2.6

Unless already granted herein, all requests for Access Rights shall be made in writing. The granting of
Access Rights may be made conditional on the acceptance of specific conditions aimed at ensuring that
these rights will be used only for the intended purpose and that appropriate confidentiality obligations
are in place.

9.2.7

The requesting Party must show that the Access Rights are Needed.

       Access Rights for implementation

Access Rights to Results and Background Needed for the performance of the own work of a Party under
the Project shall be granted on a royalty-free basis, unless otherwise agreed for Background in
Attachment 1.

       Access Rights for Exploitation

9.4.1 Access Rights to Results

Access Rights to Results if Needed for Exploitation of a Party's own Results shall be granted on Fair
and Reasonable conditions.

Access rights to Results for internal non-commercial research and for teaching activities shall be granted
on a royalty-free basis.

9.4.2

Access Rights to Background if Needed for Exploitation of a Party's own Results, shall be granted on
Fair and Reasonable conditions.

9.4.3

A request for Access Rights may be made up to twelve months after the end of the Project or, in the
case of Section 9.7.2.1.2, after the termination of the requesting Party's participation in the Project.

       Access Rights for Entities Under the Same Control

Entities Under the Same Control have Access Rights under the conditions of sections 9.3 and 9.4 of this
Consortium Agreement if they are identified in [Attachment 4 (Identified entities under the same control)
to this Consortium Agreement].

Such Access Rights must be requested by the Entity Under the Same Control from the Party that holds
the Background or Results. Alternatively, the Party granting the Access Rights may individually agree
with the Party requesting the Access Rights to have the Access Rights include the right to sublicense to
the latter's Entity Under the Same Control [listed in Attachment 4]. Access Rights to an Entity Under the
Same Control shall be granted on Fair and Reasonable conditions and upon written bilateral agreement.

The Party with which it is under the same control will ensure that entities Under the Same Control which
obtain Access Rights in return fulfil all confidentiality and other obligations accepted by the Parties with
respect to which they are Entities Under the Same Control under the Grant Agreement or this
Consortium Agreement as if such Entities Under the Same Control were Parties. In case of non-

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

compliance the Entity Under the Same Control shall be given a reasonable opportunity to rectify the
non-compliance.
Access Rights may be refused to Entities Under the Same Control if such granting is contrary to the
legitimate interests of the Party which owns the Background or the Results.
Access Rights granted to any Entity Under the Same Control are subject to the continuation of the
Access Rights of the Party with respect to which it is an Entity Under the Same Control, and shall
automatically terminate upon termination of the Access Rights granted to such Party.
Upon cessation of the status as an Entity Under the Same Control, any Access Rights granted to such
former Entity Under the Same Control shall lapse.
Further arrangements with Entities Under the Same Control may be negotiated in separate agreements.

       Additional Access Rights

For the avoidance of doubt any grant of Access Rights not covered by the Grant Agreement or this
Consortium Agreement shall be at the absolute discretion of the owning Party and subject to such terms
and conditions as may be agreed between the owning and receiving Parties.

       Access Rights for Parties entering or leaving the consortium

9.7.1 New Parties entering the consortium
As regards Results developed before the accession of the new Party, the new Party will be granted
Access Rights on the conditions applying for Access Rights to Background.
9.7.2 Parties leaving the consortium
9.7.2.1 Access Rights granted to a leaving Party
9.7.2.1.1 Defaulting Party
Access Rights granted to a Defaulting Party and such Party's right to request Access Rights shall cease
immediately upon receipt by the Defaulting Party of the formal notice of the decision of the General
Assembly to terminate its participation in the consortium.
9.7.2.1.2 Non-defaulting Party
A non-defaulting Party leaving voluntarily and with the other Parties' consent shall have Access Rights
to the Results developed until the date of the termination of its participation.
It may request Access Rights within the period of time specified in Section 9.4.3.
9.7.2.2 Access Rights to be granted by any leaving Party
Any Party leaving the Project shall continue to grant Access Rights pursuant to the Grant Agreement
and this Consortium Agreement as if it had remained a Party for the whole duration of the Project.

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

       Specific provisions for Access Rights to Software

For the avoidance of doubt, the general provisions for Access Rights provided for in this Section 9 are
applicable also to Software.

Parties' Access Rights to Software do not include any right to receive source code or object code ported
to a certain hardware platform or any right to receive respective Software documentation in any
particular form or detail, but only as available from the Party granting the Access Rights.

10 Non-disclosure of information

All information in whatever form or mode of communication, which is disclosed by a Party (the
"Disclosing Party") to any other Party (the "Recipient") in connection with the Project and which has
been explicitly marked as "confidential" at the time of disclosure, or when disclosed orally has been
identified as confidential at the time of disclosure and has been confirmed and designated in writing
within 15 calendar days from oral disclosure at the latest as confidential information by the Disclosing
Party, is "Confidential Information".

The Recipient hereby undertakes in addition and without prejudice to any commitment on non-disclosure
under the Grant Agreement, for the duration of the Project and a period of 5 years after the final payment
of the Granting Authority (the Coordinator notifies the Associated Partner(s) about the date of the final
payment):

      not to use Confidential Information otherwise than for the purpose for which it was disclosed;
      not to disclose Confidential Information without the prior written consent by the Disclosing Party;
      to ensure that internal distribution of Confidential Information by a Recipient shall take place on

          a strict need-to-know basis; and
      to return to the Disclosing Party, or destroy, on request all Confidential Information that has

          been disclosed to the Recipients including all copies thereof and to delete all information stored
          in a machine-readable form to the extent practically possible. The Recipient may keep a copy
          to the extent it is required to keep, archive or store such Confidential Information because of
          compliance with applicable laws and regulations or for the proof of on-going obligations or to
          keep copies of electronically exchanged Confidential Information made as a matter of routine
          information technology back-up provided that the Recipient complies with the confidentiality
          obligations herein contained with respect to such copy.

The Recipient shall be responsible for the fulfilment of the above obligations on the part of its employees
or third parties involved in the Project, and shall ensure that they remain so obliged, as far as legally
possible, during and after the end of the Project and/or after the termination of the (i) employment, (ii)
other contractual relationship with their personnel or (iii) divestiture of the Entity Under the Same Control.

The above shall not apply for disclosure or use of Confidential Information, if and in so far as the
Recipient can show that:

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

      the Confidential Information has become or becomes publicly available by means other than a
          breach of the Recipient's confidentiality obligations;

      the Disclosing Party subsequently informs the Recipient that the Confidential Information is no
          longer confidential;

      the Confidential Information is communicated to the Recipient without any obligation of
          confidentiality by a third party who is to the best knowledge of the Recipient in lawful possession
          thereof and under no obligation of confidentiality to the Disclosing Party;

      the disclosure or communication of the Confidential Information is foreseen by provisions of the
          Grant Agreement;

      the Confidential Information, at any time, was developed by the Recipient completely
          independently of any such disclosure by the Disclosing Party;

      the Confidential Information was already known to the Recipient prior to disclosure and is not
          subject to a confidentiality undertaking; or

      the disclosure of Confidential Information was permitted by the Disclosing Party; or
      the Recipient is required to disclose the Confidential Information in order to comply with

          applicable laws or regulations or with a court or administrative order, subject to the provision
          Section 10.7 hereunder. This obligation does not alter the status of the information as a
          Confidential Information and it is still to be treated as confidential unless otherwise regulated
          under the respective applicable law.

The Recipient shall apply the same degree of care with regard to the Confidential Information disclosed
within the scope of the Project as with its own confidential and/or proprietary information, but in no case
less than reasonable care

Each Recipient shall promptly inform the relevant Disclosing Party by written notice of any unauthorised
disclosure, misappropriation or misuse of Confidential Information after it becomes aware of such
unauthorised disclosure, misappropriation or misuse.

If any Recipient becomes aware that it will be required, or is likely to be required, to disclose Confidential
Information in order to comply with applicable laws or regulations or with a court or administrative order,
it shall, to the extent it is lawfully able to do so, prior to any such disclosure

      notify the Disclosing Party, and
      comply with the Disclosing Party's reasonable instructions to protect the confidentiality of the

          information.

11 Miscellaneous

       Attachments, inconsistencies and severability

This Consortium Agreement consists of this core text and:

      Attachment 1 (Background included)
      Attachment 2 (Accession document)
      Attachment 3 (List of third parties for simplified transfer according to Section 8.3.2)

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

      Attachment 4 (Identified Entities Under the Same Control)

In case the terms of this Consortium Agreement are in conflict with the terms of the Grant Agreement,
the terms of the latter shall prevail. In case of conflicts between the attachments and the core text of this
Consortium Agreement, the latter shall prevail.

Should any provision of this Consortium Agreement become invalid, illegal or unenforceable, it shall not
affect the validity of the remaining provisions of this Consortium Agreement. In such a case, the Parties
concerned shall be entitled to request that a valid and practicable provision be negotiated that fulfils the
purpose of the original provision.

       No representation, partnership or agency

Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.4.4, no Party shall be entitled to act or to make legally binding
declarations on behalf of any other Party or of the consortium. Nothing in this Consortium Agreement
shall be deemed to constitute a joint venture, agency, partnership, interest grouping or any other kind
of formal business grouping or entity between the Parties.

       Formal and written notices

Any notice to be given under this Consortium Agreement shall be addressed to the recipients as listed
in the most current address list kept by the Coordinator.

Any change of persons or contact details shall be immediately communicated to the Coordinator by
written notice. The address list shall be accessible to all Parties.

Formal notices:

If it is required in this Consortium Agreement (Sections 4.2, 9.7.2.1.1, and 11.4) that a formal notice,
consent or approval shall be given, such notice shall be signed by an authorised representative of a
Party and shall either be served personally or sent by mail with recorded delivery with acknowledgement
of receipt.

Written notice:

Where written notice is required by this Consortium Agreement, this is fulfilled also by other means of
communication such as e-mail with acknowledgement of receipt.

       Assignment and amendments

Except as set out in Section 8.3, no rights or obligations of the Parties arising from this Consortium
Agreement may be assigned or transferred, in whole or in part, to any third party without the other
Parties' prior formal approval.

Amendments and modifications to the text of this Consortium Agreement not explicitly listed in Section
6.3.7 (SP) require a separate written agreement to be signed between all Parties.

       Mandatory national law

Nothing in this Consortium Agreement shall be deemed to require a Party to breach any mandatory
statutory law under which the Party is operating.

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [3], [12/04/2024]

       Language

This Consortium Agreement is drawn up in English, which language shall govern all documents, notices,
meetings, arbitral proceedings and processes relative thereto.

       Applicable law

This Consortium Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of Belgium
excluding its conflict of law provisions.

       Settlement of disputes

The Parties shall endeavour to settle their disputes amicably.
All disputes arising out of or in connection with this Consortium Agreement, which cannot be solved
amicably, shall be finally settled by the courts of Brussels.
Nothing in this Consortium Agreement shall limit the Parties' right to seek injunctive relief in any
applicable competent court.

12 Signatures

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the
Effective Date by their duly authorized representatives on separate signature pages. The signature of a
Party via a scanned handwritten signature (scan of a Party's signature page including the handwritten
signature in PDF format) shall have the same force and effect as an original handwritten signature for
the purposes of validity, enforceability and admissibility. Each Party receives a fully executed copy of
the Agreement. Delivery of a fully executed copy via e-mail shall have the same force and effect as
delivery of an original hard copy. However, each Party must send an original signature page signed in
wet ink to the Coordinator, who will keep the original Consortium Agreement on archive until 5 years
after the end of the project.
REST OF THE PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [2], [20/03/2024]

Attachment 1: Background included

According to the Grant Agreement (Article 16.1) Background is defined as "data, know-how or
information (...) that is (...) needed to implement the Action or exploit the results". Because of this need,
Access Rights have to be granted in principle, but Parties must identify and agree amongst them on the
Background for the Project. This is the purpose of this attachment.

TECHNISCHE UNIVERSITÄT DRESDEN (TUD)
As to TUD, it is agreed between the Parties that, to the best of their knowledge, no data, know-how or
information of TUD is Needed by another Party for implementation of the Project (Article 16.1 and its
Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-section "Access
rights to background and results for implementing the action") or Exploitation of that other Party's Results
(Article 16.1 and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-
section "Access rights for exploiting the results").
This represents the status at the time of signature of this Consortium Agreement.

LANDESHAUPTSTADT DRESDEN (LHD)
As to LHD, it is agreed between the Parties that, to the best of their knowledge, no data, know-how or
information of LHD is Needed by another Party for implementation of the Project (Article 16.1 and its
Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-section "Access
rights to background and results for implementing the action") or Exploitation of that other Party's Results
(Article 16.1 and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-
section "Access rights for exploiting the results").
This represents the status at the time of signature of this Consortium Agreement.

VEREIN DER EUROPAEISCHEN BURGERWISSENSCHAFTEN - ECSA E.V. (ECSA)
As to ECSA, it is agreed between the Parties that, to the best of their knowledge, no data, know-how or
information of ECSA is Needed by another Party for implementation of the Project (Article 16.1 and its
Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-section "Access
rights to background and results for implementing the action") or Exploitation of that other Party's Results
(Article 16.1 and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-
section "Access rights for exploiting the results").
This represents the status at the time of signature of this Consortium Agreement.

DIN Deutsches Institut für Normung e. V. (DIN)
As to DIN, it is agreed between the Parties that, to the best of their knowledge, no data, know-how or
information of DIN is Needed by another Party for implementation of the Project (Article 16.1 and its
Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-section "Access
rights to background and results for implementing the action") or Exploitation of that other Party's Results
(Article 16.1 and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-
section "Access rights for exploiting the results").
This represents the status at the time of signature of this Consortium Agreement.

VYSKUMNE CENTRUM SLOVENSKEJ SPOLOCNOSTI PRE ZAHRANICNU POLITIKU NO (SFPA)

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu

Version 1.1, November 2022                                                       50 / 57
[U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [2], [20/03/2024]

As to SFPA, it is agreed between the Parties that, to the best of their knowledge, no data, know-how or
information of SFPA is Needed by another Party for implementation of the Project (Article 16.1 and its
Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-section "Access
rights to background and results for implementing the action") or Exploitation of that other Party's Results
(Article 16.1 and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-
section "Access rights for exploiting the results").

This represents the status at the time of signature of this Consortium Agreement.

ENVIROPLAN MELETITIKI - SYMVOULOI ANAPTYKSIAKON & TEXNIKON ERGON ANONYMI
ETAIREIA (ENV)

As to ENV, it is agreed between the Parties that, to the best of their knowledge, no data, know-how or
information of ENV is Needed by another Party for implementation of the Project (Article 16.1 and its
Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-section "Access
rights to background and results for implementing the action") or Exploitation of that other Party's Results
(Article 16.1 and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-
section "Access rights for exploiting the results").

This represents the status at the time of signature of this Consortium Agreement.

FUNDACJA PARTNERSTWA TECHNOLOGICZNEGO TECHNOLOGY PARTNERS (TPF)

As to TPF, it is agreed between the Parties that, to the best of their knowledge, no data, know-how or
information of TPF is Needed by another Party for implementation of the Project (Article 16.1 and its
Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-section "Access
rights to background and results for implementing the action") or Exploitation of that other Party's Results
(Article 16.1 and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-
section "Access rights for exploiting the results").

This represents the status at the time of signature of this Consortium Agreement.

POLITECHNIKA WROCLAWSKA (WUST)

As to WUST, it is agreed between the Parties that, to the best of their knowledge, no data, know-how or
information of WUST is Needed by another Party for implementation of the Project (Article 16.1 and its
Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-section "Access
rights to background and results for implementing the action") or Exploitation of that other Party's Results
(Article 16.1 and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-
section "Access rights for exploiting the results").

This represents the status at the time of signature of this Consortium Agreement.

AARHUS UNIVERSITET (AU)

As to AU, it is agreed between the Parties that, to the best of their knowledge, no data, know-how or
information of AU is Needed by another Party for implementation of the Project (Article 16.1 and its
Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-section "Access
rights to background and results for implementing the action") or Exploitation of that other Party's Results
(Article 16.1 and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-
section "Access rights for exploiting the results").

This represents the status at the time of signature of this Consortium Agreement.  51 / 57

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [2], [20/03/2024]

UNIVERSITA DEGLI STUDI DELL'AQUILA (ULA)
As to ULA, it is agreed between the Parties that, to the best of their knowledge, no data, know-how or
information of ULA is Needed by another Party for implementation of the Project (Article 16.1 and its
Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-section "Access
rights to background and results for implementing the action") or Exploitation of that other Party's Results
(Article 16.1 and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-
section "Access rights for exploiting the results").
This represents the status at the time of signature of this Consortium Agreement.

OANNEUM RESEARCH FORSCHUNGSGESELLSCHAFT MBH (JRG)
As to JRG, it is agreed between the Parties that, to the best of their knowledge, no data, know-how or
information of JRG is Needed by another Party for implementation of the Project (Article 16.1 and its
Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-section "Access
rights to background and results for implementing the action") or Exploitation of that other Party's Results
(Article 16.1 and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-
section "Access rights for exploiting the results").
This represents the status at the time of signature of this Consortium Agreement.

NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATION BUREAU OF RESEARCH, INNOVATIONS AND
TECHNOLOGIES (BRIT)
As to BRIT, it is agreed between the Parties that, to the best of their knowledge, no data, know-how or
information of BRIT is Needed by another Party for implementation of the Project (Article 16.1 and its
Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-section "Access
rights to background and results for implementing the action") or Exploitation of that other Party's Results
(Article 16.1 and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-
section "Access rights for exploiting the results").
This represents the status at the time of signature of this Consortium Agreement.

O.M. BEKETOV NATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF URBAN ECONOMY IN KHARKIV (OMB)
As to OMB, it is agreed between the Parties that, to the best of their knowledge, no data, know-how or
information of OMB is Needed by another Party for implementation of the Project (Article 16.1 and its
Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-section "Access
rights to background and results for implementing the action") or Exploitation of that other Party's Results
(Article 16.1 and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-
section "Access rights for exploiting the results").
This represents the status at the time of signature of this Consortium Agreement.

NATIONAL TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY OF UKRAINE IGOR SIKORSKY                           KYIV  POLYTECHNIC
INSTITUTE (ISKPI)
                                                                                                     52 / 57
© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu

Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [2], [20/03/2024]

As to ISKPI, it is agreed between the Parties that, to the best of their knowledge, no data, know-how or
information of ISKPI is Needed by another Party for implementation of the Project (Article 16.1 and its
Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-section "Access
rights to background and results for implementing the action") or Exploitation of that other Party's Results
(Article 16.1 and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-
section "Access rights for exploiting the results").
This represents the status at the time of signature of this Consortium Agreement.

HROMADSKA ORHANIZATSIYA KLUB MERIV (MCU)
As to MCU, it is agreed between the Parties that, to the best of their knowledge, no data, know-how or
information of MCU is Needed by another Party for implementation of the Project (Article 16.1 and its
Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-section "Access
rights to background and results for implementing the action") or Exploitation of that other Party's Results
(Article 16.1 and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-
section "Access rights for exploiting the results").
This represents the status at the time of signature of this Consortium Agreement.

MUNICIPAL INSTITUTION CITY INSTITUTE (CIL)
As to CIL, it is agreed between the Parties that, to the best of their knowledge, no data, know-how or
information of CIL is Needed by another Party for implementation of the Project (Article 16.1 and its
Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-section "Access
rights to background and results for implementing the action") or Exploitation of that other Party's Results
(Article 16.1 and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-
section "Access rights for exploiting the results").
This represents the status at the time of signature of this Consortium Agreement.

MUNICIPAL INSTITUTION "CITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY" OF ZHYTOMYR CITY COUNCIL
(ZCC)
As to ZCC, it is agreed between the Parties that, to the best of their knowledge, no data, know-how or
information of ZCC is Needed by another Party for implementation of the Project (Article 16.1 and its
Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-section "Access
rights to background and results for implementing the action") or Exploitation of that other Party's Results
(Article 16.1 and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-
section "Access rights for exploiting the results").
This represents the status at the time of signature of this Consortium Agreement.

KHMELNITSKY NATIONAL UNIVERSITY (KhNU)                                           53 / 57

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [2], [20/03/2024]

As to KhNU, it is agreed between the Parties that, to the best of their knowledge, no data, know-how or
information of KhNU is Needed by another Party for implementation of the Project (Article 16.1 and its
Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-section "Access
rights to background and results for implementing the action") or Exploitation of that other Party's Results
(Article 16.1 and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-
section "Access rights for exploiting the results").
This represents the status at the time of signature of this Consortium Agreement.

LEONID YUZKOV KHMELNITSKYI UNIVERSITY OF MANAGEMENT AND LAW (LYKUML)
As to LYKUML, it is agreed between the Parties that, to the best of their knowledge, no data, know-how
or information of LYKUML is Needed by another Party for implementation of the Project (Article 16.1
and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-section
"Access rights to background and results for implementing the action") or Exploitation of that other
Party's Results (Article 16.1 and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and
background", sub-section "Access rights for exploiting the results").
This represents the status at the time of signature of this Consortium Agreement.

MUNICIPAL ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE OF URBAN DEVELOPMENT (ME IUD)
As to ME IUD, it is agreed between the Parties that, to the best of their knowledge, no data, know-how
or information of ME IUD is Needed by another Party for implementation of the Project (Article 16.1 and
its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-section "Access
rights to background and results for implementing the action") or Exploitation of that other Party's Results
(Article 16.1 and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-
section "Access rights for exploiting the results").
This represents the status at the time of signature of this Consortium Agreement.

PUBLIC ORGANIZATION REGIONAL CENTER OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (RCSD)
As to RCSD, it is agreed between the Parties that, to the best of their knowledge, no data, know-how or
information of RCSD is Needed by another Party for implementation of the Project (Article 16.1 and its
Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-section "Access
rights to background and results for implementing the action") or Exploitation of that other Party's Results
(Article 16.1 and its Annex 5 Grant Agreement, Section "Access rights to results and background", sub-
section "Access rights for exploiting the results").
This represents the status at the time of signature of this Consortium Agreement.

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu  54 / 57
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [2], [20/03/2024]

                       Attachment 2: Accession document

ACCESSION
of a new Party to
[Acronym of the Project] Consortium Agreement, version [..., YYYY-MM-DD]
[OFFICIAL NAME OF THE NEW PARTY AS IDENTIFIED IN THE Grant Agreement]
hereby consents to become a Party to the Consortium Agreement identified above and accepts all the
rights and obligations of a Party starting [date].
[OFFICIAL NAME OF THE COORDINATOR AS IDENTIFIED IN THE Grant Agreement]
hereby certifies that the consortium has accepted in the meeting held on [date] the accession of [the
name of the new Party] to the consortium starting [date].
This Accession document has been done in 2 originals to be duly signed by the undersigned authorised
representatives.

[Date and Place]
[INSERT NAME OF THE NEW PARTY]
Signature(s)
Name(s)
Title(s)

[Date and Place]
[INSERT NAME OF THE COORDINATOR]
Signature(s)
Name(s)
Title(s)

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu  55 / 57
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                            [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [2], [20/03/2024]

Attachment 3: List of third parties for simplified transfer according
                                    to Section 8.3.2.

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu  56 / 57
Version 1.1, November 2022
                                              [U_CAN] Consortium Agreement, version [2], [20/03/2024]

Attachment 4: Identified Entities Under the Same Control according
                                      to Section 9.5

© DESCA - Model Consortium Agreement for Horizon Europe, www.desca-agreement.eu  57 / 57
Version 1.1, November 2022
