--- SLIDE 1 ---
Work Package 4
Pilot implementation in Ukraine,supported by European front-runners.
MI City Institute (Lviv)
Ukraine towards Carbon Neutrality
--- SLIDE 2 ---
Pilot implementation in Ukraine,supported by European front-runners
WP Lead: CIL (MI City Institute,Lviv)
Partners involved:
CIL (MI City Institute,Lviv)
OBM ( O.M Beketov National University of Urban Economy in Kharkiv)
ISKPI (National Technical University of Ukraine Igor Sikorsky Kyiv Polytechnic Institute)
ZCC (MI “City development agency” of Zhytomyr city council), 
KhNU Khmelnitsky National University),
LYKUML (Leonid Yuzkov Khmelnitsky University of Management and Law),
BRIT (Non-Govermental Organization Bureau of Research, Innovation and Technologies), 
ME IUD (ME “Institute of Urban Development”Vinnytsia), 
ENV (ENVIROPLAN Consultants & Engineers)
--- SLIDE 3 ---
WP4 Aim
Support implementation of pilot activities in six cities to demonstrate climate-neutral city solutions;
Integrate learnings from project and contemporary practices in short and medium-term strategies of local governing bodies in Ukraine.
The aim of this WP is to implement short to medium-term climate mitigation strategies in 6 pilot cities in Ukraine (Lviv, Zhytomyr, Khmelnytskyi,Іvano-Frankivsk and Vinnytsia)
WP4
Objectives
--- SLIDE 4 ---
Task 4.1: Assessment of climate indicators in pilot cities
(OBM)
This task will develop and deploy a methodology for data requirement to assess climate neutrality and impact indicators in pilot cities. It will be conducted in coordination with partners from pilot cities. Climate indicators will be collected, organised and assessed to indicate key hazards and potential risks in the pilots .
--- SLIDE 5 ---
Deliverable 4.1: Climate neutrality and impact indicators in Pilots
The document will provide methodology of evaluation of the Pilot projects implementation including the lists of climate neutrality and impact indicators for the said projects.
--- SLIDE 6 ---
Task 4.2: Climate-neutral pilot activities in Lviv
(CIL)
CIL will implement two activities for the city of Lviv 

Positive Energy District (PED)


Setting up a Bureau for EU Integration.
--- SLIDE 7 ---
Deliverable 4.2: Implementation Plan Lviv
The document will summarize key actions undertaken, including the development of the project for modernization of heat networks and heat exchange stations in building and neighborhood levels;   development of the project for integrating heat pumps in the neighborhood; development of the project for PV installations in the neighborhood based on the solar energy potential; and development of the project for smart energy grid for the neighborhood and integration of the smart energy grid into the Spatial Energy Plan of Lviv.
--- SLIDE 8 ---
--- SLIDE 9 ---
--- SLIDE 10 ---
Task 4.3: Climate-neutral pilot activities in Kyiv
(ISKPI)
Recommendations for the use of the
underground space of the city of Kyiv for systemic influence on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions
produced by transport.



 Creation of Urban Atlas for Kyiv for 2020-2022
--- SLIDE 11 ---
Deliverable 4.3: Implementation Plan Kyiv
Systematic evaluation of the reduction of automobile emissions when using the system of automobile tunnels and the subway. Urban Atlas for Kyiv for 2020-2022, maps of changes in land use, pollution and temperature fields of the districts of Kyiv will be created. System methodology and tools for making planning decisions regarding the development of underground transport infrastructure for the tasks of climate neutrality of the city. The results of the testing of promising routes of car tunnels and subway lines in Kyiv. Recommendations regarding the use of the underground space of the city of Kyiv for systemic impact on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by transport.
--- SLIDE 12 ---
Photos
--- SLIDE 13 ---
Task 4.4: Climate-neutral pilot activities in Zhytomyr
(ZCC)
ZCC will conduct two activities in the city of Zhytomyr namely; 

Development of a floating solar power plant 



Development of urban gardening models based on the former municipal plant nurseries
--- SLIDE 14 ---
Deliverable 4.4: Implementation Plan Zhytomyr
The deliverable as a report of Implementation Plan for Zhytomyr will contain the pilot summaries of both the pilot activities. namely,
Development of a floating solar power plant; 
Development of urban gardening models.
--- SLIDE 15 ---
--- SLIDE 16 ---
--- SLIDE 17 ---
Task 4.5: Climate-neutral pilot activities in Khmelnytskyi
(KhNU, LYKUML)
KhNU and LYKUML along with the Khmelnytskyi City Council will conduct two activities in the city of Khmelnytskyi namely.
Knowledge dissemination on CO2
reduction and development of an adaptive traffic management system.
 Development of a centre for the support of local policies in the field of climate-neutral construction and energy.
--- SLIDE 18 ---
Deliverable 4.5: Implementation Plan Khmelnytskyi
The deliverable will comprise of dissemination activities including a conference in the field of CO2 emission reduction in the transport sector in Ukrainian cities. It will also include setting up of a Centre for the support of local policies in the field of climate-neutral construction and energy in Khmelnytskyi.
--- SLIDE 19 ---
--- SLIDE 20 ---
Task 4.6: Climate-neutral pilot activities in Ivano-Frankivsk
(BRIT)
BRIT will implement photovoltaic installation within the public building in central Ivano-Frankivsk. The climate-neutral solution and approach from the pilot activity will be included in an Implementation Plan for Ivano-Frankivsk  to cater to the scope of scale-up and replication.
--- SLIDE 21 ---
Deliverable 4.6: Implementation Plan Ivano-Frankivsk
Implementation plan for Ivano-Frankivsk will represent a roadmap agreed by key stakeholders in the areas of recently adopted Declaration on Ivano-Frankivsk green deal and working Sustainable energy and climate action plan till 2030. The areas to be covered the Implementation plan include to are not limited by the following: private and municipal/public buildings, municipal transport, energy production facilities and dissemination policy. Other areas such a private transportation and companies, higher cost solutions will be showcased with best EU examples.
--- SLIDE 22 ---
Task 4.7: Climate-neutral pilot activities in Vinnytsia
(ME IUD)
Strategy for restoration of urban biodiversity of Vinnytsia. As a sub task, it will also develop a socio-spatial concept for Tiazhylivka river revitalisation. This will include measures to protect local biodiversity and treatment of polluted river water. Climate-neutral approaches from the pilot activity will be included in an Implementation Plan for Vinnytsia to cater to the scope of replication.
--- SLIDE 23 ---
Deliverable 4.7: Implementation Plan Vinnytsia
The deliverable as a report for Implementation plan for Vinnytsia will contain the developed strategy for restoration of urban biodiversity of Vinnytsia and a socio-spatial concept for Tiazhylivka river revitalisation.
--- SLIDE 24 ---
--- SLIDE 25 ---
Task 4.8: Performance assessment of initiatives in six pilot cities
(ENV)
Impact and performance of the pilot activities based on the framework developed in T4.1. It is deemed necessary to create a roadmap and prioritize measures for implementation. It will, where relevant, include energy audits, risk assessment analysis and summarize the project's contribution to climate mitigation based on the pilot results in the form of Performance Assessment Report.
--- SLIDE 26 ---
Deliverable 4.8: Climate Impact and Performance Assessment Report for the pilot Cities
Performance assessment report of all activities designed and implemented in the pilot cities between months 13-36. . The roadmap will be designed to at least assess:
Effectiveness degree of each measure / activity through different KPIs
Capacity of the implementation bodies, the needs and the difficulties experienced
Financing methods and funding sources used It will also provide the framework for future development of similar activities and projects.
--- SLIDE 27 ---
Connections 
with other 
Work Packages

WP4
--- SLIDE 28 ---
WP4 Timeline
Text hinzufügen Text hinzufügen
--- SLIDE 29 ---
Thank you for your attention !
Funded by the European Union. Views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European Union or CINEA. Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them.